Nevada hundreds of miles of wide open
spaces blanketed by the scorching Sun a
[Music]
beautiful but hostile environment if you
look closely you can find life but if
you look closer you can find gold over
the course of the next two days I'll be
giving it my best shot at trying to take
home some of the elusive Nevada gold I'm
not anywhere special today but I am
using something special today I'll be
using the mine lab GPX 5000 and that's
gonna be your premier nugget hunting
machine there's been a lot of gold
pulled out of these parts but it's still
here every time advances come out in
technology people end up coming back and
pulling more from the same old patches
so am i slow down take a listen and see
what comes out I use my GPS to find the
location where I've found gold in the
past and then the search begins
[Music]
okay
I think it's been probably about two
hours since I've had a single target but
I finally got a decent signal so take a
listen to this removing a couple inches
of topsoil can eliminate surface targets
be sure to reground balance on top of
the dirt that you just moved to help
reduce mineralization interference using
a powerful rare earth magnet mounted to
the handle of my pick I'm able to sort
out trash dug down a little bit it's
just some hot ground keep moving
there are ways to distinguish hot ground
sounds from actual target sounds but
being that this is a new machine for me
I'm gonna dig everything that repeats
[Music]
it is hotter than a goat's ass and a
pepper patch out here I think all the
gold is hiding because it's so hot and I
have scoured these hills tops bottom up
and down I think at this point it's just
a matter of putting the coil over it
I've been digging birdshot and really
small pieces of metal
no gold dough
looks like it's going to be a beautiful
sunset though
that night the desert came to life
well no luck on the Nuggets tack or hit
it early tomorrow travel a couple
different spots it's nice out no he was
hot earlier it's gonna be hotter
tomorrow
[Music]
last night was rough this Subaru is a
little bit smaller than I anticipated
it's gonna be a long day of hunting
that's for sure
okay here we go day two cross the
fingers to my surprise I found myself
digging a repeatable target almost
immediately but with a pocketful of
bullets from the day before I was trying
not to get my hopes up with the
excessive wind noise it's imperative
that I wear headphones otherwise I might
walk right over one of those small
whisper signals however this was no
whisper as I began to dig deeper I
noticed a change in the soil color in
this particular area this can be a
positive indication that gold is nearby
I think I got an edgy
I do I got another yeah freakin time
if I can clean it up a little bit people
have traveled thousands of miles on
boats with sails to come to the new
world and then they got on a wagon and
headed towards the frontier after this
unbelievable I'll show you this little
water won't pilot dry wash material here
and I'm right up on the edge of it I'll
put you back so you can grow into big
ones I got to think a couple people to
uh I'm not gonna say their names to
protect them but you know who you are
you helped me get on a good spot with
some gold and even hooked me up with
some settings for my new GPX line down
thank you very much you guys you know
who you are the rest of the day yielded
nothing but trash and more wind but with
a newfound sense of confidence I was
ready to head home all right you guys
I'm gonna wrap it up I'm out of here I'm
leaving with one gold nugget it's better
than no gold nuggets I know there's more
here but I wasn't able to put the coil
over him this time
Oh we'll be back Oh we'll be back
[Music]